It’s time to dispel the myth that innovation must be disruptive. Nondisruptive creation is an alternative path to growth.

Disruption occurs when an innovation creates a new market and business model that cause established players to fall.

Not surprisingly, many have come to view disruption as a synonym for innovation.


A single-minded focus on disruption leads companies to overlook another building block of innovation and growth — one that we would argue is more important.
- That other building block is what we call nondisruptive creation, which offers a new way of thinking about what’s possible.
- It highlights the immense potential for creating new markets where none existed before. 
- This is creation without disruption or destruction. 
- All the demand generated by this kind of innovation is new.

Nondisruptive creation is just as much a modern phenomenon. Microfinance, Viagra, life coaching, Post-it notes, health clubs, and environmental consulting are all prime examples, as are, more recently, online dating, crowdfunding, and smartphone accessories. In each case, the pie was expanded without destroying existing businesses or markets.


Disruption unlocks growth and creates compelling value for end users, but at painful adjustment costs for societies. It imposes a trade-off. Shuttered companies, lost jobs, and hurt communities are inherent by-products, as market creation and market destruction are inextricably linked

Part of nondisruptive creation’s appeal is that it breaks this trade-off. It increases the economic pie with minimal to no social pain. It’s a positivesum approach to innovation, as opposed to the zero-sum nature of disruption.


Most companies today focus their efforts on what it would take to disrupt existing markets. 
- This narrows their vision and blinds them to the wealth of nondisruptive, market-creating innovations they could unlock. 
- For established companies and startups alike, a nondisruptive approach creates several distinctive advantages:
	- Making execution emotionally and politically easier
		- Disruption will kill your own industry if you are an established company there
		- ex Kodak created the first digital camera but tried to withstand distruption so konkurs
		- Management can put undue overhead or starve the disruptive sector of resources to not risk their jobs
		- Nondisruptive innovation is more non threatening
	- Offering a good counterresponse to disruption.
		- Nondisruptive creation can be an effective way to respond to market disruptors.
		- Ex when planes became a thing, sea travel could not match price and speed
		- The company that had sea travel instead started offering luxury cruises to public
			- Cunard opened up the entire cruise tourism industry.
	- Avoiding Goliath
		- When companies — especially startups — set out to disrupt an existing market, they often face well-entrenched market leaders with far greater financial and marketing resources.
	- Reducing conflicts with social interest groups and government agencies
		- When the social costs incurred by disruption become too great, social interest groups and government agencies often lobby against, clamp down on, rein in, or tax the disruptor. 
		- Consider how city after city has attempted to impose regulations and penalties to stymie Uber’s ability to maneuver and expand
		- Since nondisruptive creation doesn’t displace existing businesses and livelihoods, it imposes minimal adjustment costs on society and allows companies to largely avoid these negative issues.

### An expanded view of innovation and growth

We need a model that recognizes and embraces both disruptive and nondisruptive creation, since they are complementary engines of growth. 

Focusing on only one leads to a biased view of what’s possible and limits a company’s potential to create the markets of tomorrow.

Which innovation strategies drive disruption, and which drive nondisruptive creation? 
- The answer comes down to the type of issue a company sets out to address as it launches its innovation strategies.

There are three basic ways to pursue innovation. Companies can: 
- **Offer a breakthrough solution to an industry’s existing problem. **
	- This is distruptive
	- ex: CDs mkaing storage and listening to many songs without cackling break like cassets, then ipods taking over from CDs, then smartphones effect on ipods
- **Identify and solve a brand-new problem or seize a brand-new opportunity.**
	- On the other end of the spectrum, we have nondisruptive creation
	- Here, organizations that identify and solve brand-new problems or seize brand-new opportunities create new markets beyond industry boundaries, rather than eating at the margins or the core of existing industries.
	- Viagra identified and solved a problem that had not been previously addressed, spawning all new demand
- **Redefine an existing industry problem and solve the redefined problem. **
	- Innovation strategies that redefine an existing industry problem and solve the redefined problem lead to both disruptive and nondisruptive creation. 
	- Problem redefinition allows an organization to question long-held assumptions and shift industry boundaries in creative ways
	- Take the case of Nintendo’s Wii. 
		- It redefined the problem the video console industry had long focused on from how to have the fastest, highest-resolution graphic video console to how to deliver an easy-touse console that combined the movement of physical sports with family-friendly games everyone could play together at home. 
		- The Wii’s family-friendly games were easy to understand and play, and their operation was governed by motion, not button pushing. 
		- The Wii drew a slice of demand from the existing video game console industry, creating an element of disruption, but it also expanded the industry in a nondisruptive manner by attracting a mass of people — from young children to senior citizens — who had never played video games.
	- Solving a brand-new problem or seizing a brand-new opportunity drives nondisruptive creation. And redefining an existing industry problem and solving the redefined problem draws on elements of both disruptive and nondisruptive creation.


### How to Spot Potential for Nondisruptive Creation

What makes some leaders effective at identifying brand-new problems to solve or brand-new opportunities to seize? Our research indicates that they think about innovation in a distinctive way. 

Fundamentally, they follow three steps.

- **First**, they tend to think deeply about burning but overlooked issues in the world, in their industry, or in their vocation that they truly care about and that people or organizations are struggling with. 
	- Caring deeply is a fairly reliable indicator that an issue is of central importance, and if people or organizations are struggling with it, that suggests a gateway to an unaddressed problem or a brand-new opportunity.
	- **Ask yourself this simple but profound question**: What burning but overlooked issue with which people or organizations are struggling in the world, in your industry, or in your vocation do you care deeply about?
- **Step** two is to understand which organizations or industries would typically address the problem or opportunity and to figure out why they have overlooked it. Understanding why an issue is overlooked will often provide insight into what your innovation must address to unlock a nondisruptive market.


### Areas Ripe for Nondisruptive Creation
