To be sure, most of us have the broad sense that they (VCs) fill a crucial market need by **connecting entrepreneurs who have good ideas but no money** with **investors who have money but no ideas.**

The first task a VC faces is connecting with start-ups that are looking for funding—a process known in the industry as “**generating deal flow**. ”

According to our survey, more than 30% of deals come from leads from VCs’ former colleagues or work acquaintances. Other contacts also play a role: 20% of deals come from referrals by other investors, and 8% from referrals by existing portfolio companies. Only 10% result from cold email pitches by company management. But almost 30% are generated by VCs initiating contact with entrepreneurs.

Few VCs use standard financial-analysis techniques to assess deals. The most commonly used metric is simply the cash returned from the deal as a multiple of the cash invested.

One framework suggests that VCs favor either the “jockey” or the “horse. ” (The entrepreneurial team is the jockey, and the startup’s strategy and business model are the horse.) Our survey found that VCs believe both the jockey and the horse are necessary—but ultimately deem the founding management team to be more critical.


**After the Handshake**
To aspiring entrepreneurs, the typical VC term sheet often seems to be written in a foreign language. Of course, it’s critical for company founders to understand these contracts. They’re designed to ensure that the entrepreneur will do very well financially if he or she performs but that investors can take control of the business if the entrepreneur doesn’t deliver.

They’re designed to ensure that the entrepreneur will do very well financially if he or she performs but that investors can take control of the business if the entrepreneur doesn’t deliver. Prior studies of VC investment terms show that VCs accomplish that through the careful allocation of cash flow rights (the financial upside that gives founders incentives to perform), control rights (the board and voting rights that allow VCs to intervene if needed), liquidation rights (the distribution of the payoff if the company flounders and has to be sold), and employment terms, particularly vesting (which gives entrepreneurs incentives both to perform and to stay at the company). In general, deals are structured so that entrepreneurs who hit specific milestones retain control and reap monetary rewards. If they miss those milestones, however, the VCs can bring in new management and change direction.


The VCs indicated that they were relatively inflexible on pro rata investment rights, liquidation preferences, and antidilution rights (which protect their potential economic upside) as well as on the vesting of the founders’ equity, the company’s valuation, and board control (which is often seen as the most important control mechanism)

Intensive advisory activities are the main mechanism VCs use to add value to their portfolio companies. (Surveys reveal that this is also true for private equity investors.)